There are different ways to run your databases on AWS:

Using Amazon EC2
Using a managed purpose-built database service
With a managed database service, you can simplify the configuration and setup of your databases
Managed databases would take care of time-consuming and complex activities

Database usecases:
Moving to managed databases
Building modern apps with purpose-built databases
Breaking free from legacy databases

Relational databases: 

Traditional applications, enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), e-commerce

Amazon Aurora
Amazon RDS
Amazon Redshift

Key-value type database :
High-traffic web applications, e-commerce systems, gaming applications

Dynamo-DB

In-memory type database:

Caching, session management, gaming leaderboards, geospatial applications

Amazon ElastiCache,
Amazon MemoryDB for Redis

Document type databases:

Content management, catalogs, user profiles

Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)

Wide column type databases:

High-scale industrial apps for equipment maintenance, fleet management, route optimization
Amazon Keyspaces

Graph type databases:

Fraud detection, social networking, recommendation engines
Amazon Neptune

Time series type databases:

Internet of Things (IoT) applications, DevOps, industrial telemetry
Amazon Timestream

Ledger type databases:

Systems of record, supply chain, registrations, banking transactions
Amazon Ledger Database Services (QLDB)



Amazon Aurora

It is compatible with MySQL, so you can run those engines with increased performance on AWS.
The database supports High availability and durability, and you can run it serverless. This takes care of automatically scaling the resources for you.
With Aurora, you also can run the database with multi-Regional replicas.
Performance and availability of commercial-grade databases at 1/10th the cost.

Amazon RDS

You can choose Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) to launch the database in the Multi-AZ configuration if you want to deploy it for high availability (HA).
The service will launch the primary and standby databases in different Availability Zones and set up synchronous replication of data and failover strategy. 
If the primary database goes down, the standby picks up the traffic.

Managed relational database—Amazon RDS

Amazon RDS is a web service that makes it easier to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the AWS Cloud. It provides cost-efficient, resizable capacity for an industry-standard relational database and manages common database administration tasks.

Managed means you still have the power to decide how the database will be launched, but Amazon RDS will launch it for you. You can set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud with just a few clicks. Amazon RDS is compatible with multiple engines, and you can use it to launch the Amazon Aurora database. 

Choose from seven popular engines: Amazon Aurora with MySQL compatibility, Amazon Aurora with PostgreSQL compatibility, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and SQL Server.

Amazon Redshift

Amazon Redshift is a data warehouse service that provides benefits from columnar storage. 
With this approach, you can perform complex queries on your data, helping you run online analytical processing (OLAP) workloads.

Amazon DynamoDB

With DynamoDB, you can achieve single-digit millisecond performance at any scale.
It is a fully managed, serverless, nonrelational database.
DynamoDB is a great choice when you're looking for seamless database scalability. DynamoDB will automatically scale to meet demand.
DynamoDB is also an excellent choice for workloads that involve working with databases, flexible schemas, and high throughput (with many read/write requests). 

Amazon ElastiCache

Unlock microsecond latency 
Scalable caching service

Amazon MemoryDB for Redis

Compatible 
 Durable

Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)

Scale JSON workloads with ease
Use an enterprise-ready document database service compatible with MongoDB

Amazon Keyspaces

Scalable
Highly available 
Run your Apache Cassandra workloads

Amazon Neptune

Amazon Neptune is used for simplifying the setup and running of your graph databases. 
This helps you run databases aware of relationships between data. 
Amazon Neptune can be useful for fraud detection, social media, and similar applications.
Build applications that work with highly connected datasets. 

Amazon Timestream

Fast
Scalable
Store and analyze trillions of events per day

Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB)

Provides logs that are as follows:

Transparent
Immutable
Cryptographically verifiable


